---
layout: post
title: 'prophet is data science not statistics, and there is a difference'
description: ""
categories: 
---

Facebook's [`prophet`](https://github.com/facebookincubator/prophet)
forecasting tool illustrates the distinction between a traditional statistical
approach compared to the newer machine learning/data science paradigm.

This distinction is cultural: it seems that the motivation behind `prophet` was
to quickly make accurate forecasts (predictions), instead of getting bogged
down in building models satisfying certain theoretical properties, which may or
may not yield useful results.

The "statistics" in `prophet` may seem old-school, instead of new. The novelty
is that the tool focuses on quickly getting useful results: you input your data
and in 2 lines get your predictions. Then, you can fine-tune these by adjusting
various "knobs", or use the predicted curve in an experiment to see how it
actually performs against another candidate model. Probably, this data-driven
approach will yield better results much quicker than if you invested time into
trying to satisfy model assumptions and worrying about other "academic"
concerns.

The machine learning mindset is just that - a new and different mindset to
solving problems, some of which may be old.

To illustrate this in another way, say you wanted to learn time-series
forecasting. You could take a traditional statistics course on time-series
methods, and you would probably learn a lot of theory but not spend a lot of
time with real data to obtain useful results. For that, a better alternative
would be to plug in some data into `prophet`, and get a trend forecast that you
could then fine tune by playing with it, and perhaps test in a (simulated)
experiment. All on day one. How long would you have to wait to do this in a
traditional course?

In essence, the newer approach is less focused on reaching promised
"asymptoptia" and other abstract worlds, and more focused on quickly getting
practical and useful results, which is especially important in industry.

To learn more about `prophet`, hear from Sean Taylor, a team member, by
checking out Episode 35 of the Podcast "Not So Standard Deviations". It's on
[SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/nssd-podcast) and
[iTunes](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/not-so-standard-deviations/id1040614570?mt=2).
