---
layout: post
title: 'My iOS/macOS wish list'
description: ""
categories: 
---


Don’t need bells and whistles, just the basics.

# iOS

Mail: downloads messages without delays and without glitches

Control center: make it more easily accessible (iPhone X)

Camera: improve autofocus with Live Photo turned on (default). When I need to
take a pic ASAP, the pics come out blurry (many shots were ruined!). So I
turned off Live Photo by default.

Calendar: fix bugs when clicking events from Mail, etc

Messages: fix bugs with “hide alerts” which don’t work in certain cases (I
think an iCloud issue. Specifically, contacts sync)

Maps: Fix bugs (favorites sync, pin issues). Need better locations/updated
details so I don’t have to use the other maps app :) Add lists instead of just
stars (ideally: I can also add my own notes to a favorite!) Also: maps still
doesn’t show Chipotle in SF on 4th in SOMA (a few blocks from Apple office
too!!) even after I submitted the same report MULTIPLE times (!!).

Siri search: better find/sort (poor top results for some apps like Notes)

Input: instantaneous dictation launch instead of slight delay. I use it for its
speed!

Music: interface is “slow” to use (I literally execute each gesture/click each
button twice). Need faster access to “repeat” button (when not using Siri)

Music: out of a year of using “For you”, I can count on 3 fingers how many
recommended songs I actually liked. Make recommendations better! [Maybe humans
aren’t that good](http://pavopax.github.io/2016/07/human-vs-algorithm-1/)?

Siri: hears me over playing music (a la HomePod). Would like better recognition
of voice - but privacy first, so NBD


# macOS

Calendar/reminders: Fix CPU spike at wake (CalNCService, especially with
multiple internet (email) accounts). Fix bugs/improve general speed.

General: need better performance at wake from sleep: system is overloaded for
first few seconds (slack…. But not only)

Keychain: Provide a way to clear out certificates and old passwords (sort by
last used?). Have many issues on corporate laptop that propagate to Safari and
Wifi.

Faster launch of dictation

iamroot: never again!

Still hard to find cursor when have 2 external monitors even with the
shake-to-find feature

Battery: improve battery life on MacBook Pro. Stop fiddling with brightness to
hide poor battery life (MacBook at 50% brighter than MacBook Pro at 50%)

# General

Hardware/software quality: improve quality control ESPECIALLY near launch. I’ve
been getting new devices at launch since 2015 and ALWAYS have hardware (and
software) issues (Macbook, MacBook Pro, iPhones). Question is, can I restrain
myself from buying latest product right at launch?

# PS

Things I love in iOS/macOS coming next (∩_∩)
